Fig. 1. Histograms of spatially aggregated IAP2 simulation for the 18 selected outputs, averaged
across the three emission scenarios and ten climate models for SSP1. Note: ($\textunderscore$) denotes
unitless.

Fig. 2. Main and total indices for the Sobol g− function using our algorithm. The red dots denote
the analytical values.

Fig. 3. Main and total indices for the multivariate test cases using arctangent temporal function
which has 100 functional outputs with two input variables from a uniform distribution.
Fig. 4. Main and total indices for the nonlinear model used in Xu et al. (2019b) using MSGP
algorithm.

Fig. 5. Sample output data from the IMPRESSIONS IAP2 simulation under RCP4.5 and
HadGEM2-ES-RCA4 climate model and the classification of the five European regions used
in the analyses.

Fig. 6. Comparison of the multivariate GP emulator performance with IAP2 simulation for 500
randomly sample points under the SSP4 scenario in the 2050s for EU-wide aggregated data;
simulation (black) and emulator predictions (green) with 95\% C.I. (red). Note: the outputs have
been normalised to have a zero mean and unit variance.

Fig. 7. Comparison of the multivariate GP emulator performance with IAP2 simulation for 500
randomly sample points under the SSP1 scenario in the 2050s for EU-wide aggregated data;
simulation (black) and emulator predictions (green) with 95\% C.I. (red). Note: the outputs have
been normalised to have a zero mean and unit variance.

Fig. 8. Main effect plots for EU-wide aggregated data; simulation (black) and emulator predic-
tions (green) with 95\% C.I. (red). Note: the outputs have been normalised to have a zero mean
and unit variance.

Fig. 9. Barplots of the posterior mean estimates of the first-order indices from the multivariate
sensitivity analyses for some selected IAP2 outputs for EU-wide average data.

Fig. 10. Barplots of the posterior mean estimates of the total indices from the multivariate
sensitivity analyses for some selected IAP2 outputs for EU-wide average data.

Fig. 11. Boxplots of the posterior mean for the multivariate generalised indices for EU-wide
average data. Note: The left plots correspond to the standard approach while the right plots are
computed from the vector projected method using affine transformation.

Fig. 12. Boxplots of the posterior mean and their uncertainty estimates for the aggregated main
indices for SSP1, SSP3, SSP4 and SSP5 respectively.

Fig. 13. Main effect plots for EU-wide aggregated data; simulation (black) and emulator predic-
tions (green) with 95% C.I. (red). Note: the outputs have been normalised to have a zero mean
and unit variance.

Fig. 14. Histograms of spatially aggregated IAP2 simulation for the 18 selected outputs, aver-
aged across the three emission scenarios and ten climate models for SSP4. Note: ($\textunderscore$) denotes
unitless.

Fig. 15. Boxplots of the posterior mean and their uncertainty estimates for the aggregated main
indices for Alpine, Northern, Atlantic, Continental and Southern regional averaged data.

Fig. 16. Posterior summary showing the densities of each parameter for EU-wide data.

Fig. 17. Posterior summary showing the trace plots of each parameter for EU-wide data.
